---
tags: [Status Codes]
---

# Status Codes and Errors



## Http Status Codes
<!-- theme: info -->

> The Beyond API uses the following standard HTTP status codes to indicate success or failure of a request.

Status code	| Description |
|-----------|-------------|
200 OK	| Standard response for a successful HTTP request.
201 Created	| A new resource has been created successfully, usually via POST operation. The URI of the new resource is available in the Location header of the response.
202 Accepted	| The service successfully accepted the request, but further processing is required.
204 No Content	| A successful request, e.g. for PUT, PATCH, and DELETE operations, though the response does not contain any data.
301 Moved Permanently	| The resource is not longer available at the requested path. Future requests have to be directed to the given URI shown in the Location header.
400 Bad Request	| The request could not be validated. The response body includes an error message providing further information.
401 Unauthorized	| The request requires valid authentication. The response body includes an error message providing further information.
403 Forbidden	| The request is valid, but the server refuses action. Permissions might be required to access the resource.
404 Not Found	| The requested resource or item could not be found, but may be available in future, e.g. a product has been requested, that is not available.
405 Method Not Allowed	| The used request method is not supported by that resource, e.g. using a POST on a resource that requires a GET.
406 Not Acceptable	| The content negotiation between client and server failed. The server could not process the requested data set in the Accept header.
409 Conflict	| The request could not be completed due to a conflict with the current state of the target resource.
415 Unsupported Media Type	| The requested media type is not supported by the server or resource, e.g. the request includes an application/json but the server expects a text/uri-list.
500 Server Error	| A generic error message that is given, when an unexpected condition was encountered and a no more specific message is suitable.
503 Gateway Error	| One of more downstream services are down or not responding. the request can be retried and with the same idempotency key to avoid duplicate transactions

## Error responses
<!-- theme: info -->
> All successful BaaS API calls will return a HTTP status code of 200. BaaS APIs return a response header for 4xx validation errors, the body contains a JSON object with additional details and the following structure below. Please refer to the error responses under individual APIs in the documentation for error codes specific to those APIs.

Key  | Type | Max Length | Description | Required?
|---------|----------|---------|---------|---------|
responseId | String | 36 | UUID generated by caller with hyphens | Yes
responseCode | String | 64 | Response code used to indicate success or failure.  | Yes
responseSubCode | String | 64 | Provides details on the failure codes due to downstream entities or for more granular error conditions. For instance, Know-Your-Customer (KYC) calls could fail due to ID verification errors, the subcode would contain error for a specific ID type | No
responseMessage | String | 256 | Description of the error. Do not build logic based on the description | No

## API Response Codes
HTTP Status Code  | Old Response Code | New Response Code | Response Sub Code | Response Message |
|-----------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|------------------|
200               |  OK               |                   |                   | Request completed successfully
200               |  4001             | invalid_person    |                   | Person ID not found
200               |  4002             | person_already_exists|                | Person ID already exists
200               |  4003             | invalid_card      |                   | Invalid card data
200               |  4004             | no_link_found     |                   | No links exist for Person ID
200               |  5001             | gateway_error     |                   | Gateway/Downstream system error
